Feature/variational form (#418)
LLNL/serac: src/docs/sphinx/dev_guide/weak_form.rst

.. _header-n2:

Weak Form
=========

``WeakForm`` is a class that is used specify and evaluate
finite-element-type calculations. For example, the weighted residual for
a solid mechanics simulation may look something like:

.. math::

   r(u) := 
   \underbrace{\int_\Omega \nabla\psi : \sigma(\nabla u) \; \text{d}v}_{\text{stress response}}
   \;+\;
   \underbrace{\int_\Omega \psi \cdot b(\mathbf{x}) \; \text{d}v}_{\text{body forces}} 
   \;+\;
   \underbrace{\int_{\partial\Omega} \psi \cdot \mathbf{t}(\mathbf{x}) \; \text{d}a}_{\text{surface loads}},

where :math:`\psi` are the test basis functions. To describe this

> residual using WeakForm, we first create the object itself, providing a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
residual using ``WeakForm``, we first create the object itself, providing a
```

template parameter that expresses the test and trial spaces (i.e. the
"inputs" and "outputs" of the residual function, :math:`r`). In this
case, solid mechanics uses H1 test and trial spaces, so we write:

.. code-block:: cpp

   constexpr int order = 2; // the polynomial order of the basis functions
   constexpr int dim = 3; // the dimension of our problem
   using test = H1<order, dim>;
   using trial = H1<order, dim>;

>    WeakForm< test(trial) > residual(test_fes, trial_fes);

Reviewer: It would be good to show where `test_fes` and `trial_fes` come from.

The template argument follows the same convention of ``std::function``:
the output-type appears outside the parentheses, and the input-type(s)
appear, inside the parentheses (in order). So, the last line of code in
the snippet above is saying that ``residual`` is going to represent a
calculation that takes in an H1 field (displacements), and returns a
vector of weighted residuals, using H1 test functions.

> Now that we have this ``WeakForm`` object created, we can use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the ``WeakForm`` object is created, we can use the
```

following functions to define integral terms (depending on their
dimensionality):

1. Integrals of the form:

>    :math:`\displaystyle \iint_\Omega \psi \cdot f_0 + \nabla \psi : f_1 \; da`

Reviewer: I think we decided using `flux` and `source` or something like that would be clearer than `f_0` and `f_1`.

Author: I can make the changes of "f_0" -> source and "f_1" -> flux if we think that's the right terminology. I'd prefer to not have words appear in LaTeX equations, would "s" for source and "f" for flux be okay?

     auto [u, grad_u] = disp;
     
     // WeakForm expects us to return a tuple of the form {f_0, f_1} (see table above)
     auto f0 = zero{}; // for this term, the f_0 term is identically zero.
     auto f1 = stress(grad_u); // call some constitutive model for the material in this domain
     
     return std::tuple{f0, f1};
     
   }, mesh);

The other terms follow a similar pattern. For the body force:

.. code-block:: cpp

   residual.AddVolumeIntegral([](auto x, auto disp /* unused */){
     
     // WeakForm::AddVolumeIntegral() expects us to return a tuple of the form {f_0, f_1}
     auto f0 = b(x); // evaluate the body-force at the location of the quadrature point
     auto f1 = zero{}; // for this term, the f_1 term is identically zero
     
     return std::tuple{f0, f1};
     
   }, mesh);

And finally, for the surface tractions:

.. code-block:: cpp

   // WeakForm::AddSurfaceIntegral() only expects us to return f, so we don't need a tuple
   residual.AddSurfaceIntegral([](auto x, auto disp /* unused */){
     return traction(x); // evaluate the traction at the location of the quadrature point

>    }, surface_mesh);

Reviewer: Are we actually expecting this interface? I believe this needs mesh views or submeshes in MFEM, which could be a while. We should probably do something like `, mesh, surface_attribute_set` until that is developed.

Author: For now it takes a mesh and integrating over the all of the boundary faces, so the code snippet is consistent with the current implementation. Although, I agree that this isn't what we actually want. I'm tempted to leave this comment as-is, since it is at least consistent, and then update it when we change the interface to the one that supports submeshes or attribute sets.

Now that we've finished describing all the integral terms that appear in
our residual, we can carry out the actual calculation by calling
``WeakForm::operator()``:

.. code-block:: cpp

   auto r = residual(displacements);

Putting these snippets together without the verbose comments, we have (note: the two AddVolumeIntegrals were fused into one):

.. code-block:: cpp

   using test = H1<order, dim>;
   using trial = H1<order, dim>;
   WeakForm< test(trial) > residual(test_fes, trial_fes);

   // note: the first two AddVolumeIntegral calls can be fused
   // into one, provided they share the same domain of integration
   residual.AddVolumeIntegral([](auto x, auto disp){

>      return std::tuple{b(x), stress(std::get<1>(disp))};

Reviewer: A lot of people probably aren't familiar with `std::get`, so I would still use `auto [u, grad_u] = disp;`.

get the data they need:

.. code-block:: cpp

   template <typename test, typename trial>
   struct WeakForm<test(trial)> : public mfem::Operator {
     ...
     std::vector< Integral<test(trial)> > domain_integrals;
     std::vector< Integral<test(trial)> > boundary_integrals;
   };

The calls to ``WeakForm::Add****Integral`` forward the integrand and
mesh information to an ``Integral`` constructor and add it to the
appropriate list (either ``domain_integrals`` or
``boundary_integrals``). MFEM treats domain and boundary integrals
differently, so we maintain them in separate lists.

From there, the ``Integral`` constructor uses the integrand functor to
specialize a highly templated finite element kernel (simplified
implementation given below).

.. code-block:: cpp

   template < ::Geometry g, typename test, typename trial, int geometry_dim, int spatial_dim, int Q,
              typename derivatives_type, typename lambda>
   void evaluation_kernel(const mfem::Vector& U, mfem::Vector& R, derivatives_type* derivatives_ptr,
                          const mfem::Vector& J_, const mfem::Vector& X_, int num_elements, lambda qf)

>    {

Reviewer 2: This documentation is great!  Haven't had the chance to read through it completely but would it be possible to use Sphinx `literalinclude`s for these snippets so they stay up-to-date with the source code?

e.g., https://github.com/LLNL/serac/blame/develop/src/docs/sphinx/user_guide/simple_conduction_tutorial.rst#L44-L47

Author: `literalinclude` is a powerful tool, indeed, but I think it might not make sense in this case. These code snippets are more for showing the general structure of the main classes, rather than the specific details (e.g. there are "..." sprinkled in to focus the reader's attention to just the relevant sections, I'm not sure how to make that work with `literalinclude`).

Reviewer: I think it makes sense to do this when we have more examples of how to use this (similar to the conduction tutorial).

       tensor u_elem = impl::Load<trial_element>(u, e);

       // this is where we will accumulate the element residual tensor
       element_residual_type r_elem{};

       // for each quadrature point in the element
       for (int q = 0; q < static_cast<int>(rule.size()); q++) {
         // get the position of this quadrature point in the parent and physical space,
         // and calculate the measure of that point in physical space.
         auto   xi  = rule.points[q];
         auto   dxi = rule.weights[q];
         auto   x_q = make_tensor<spatial_dim>([&](int i) { return X(q, i, e); });
         auto   J_q = make_tensor<spatial_dim, geometry_dim>([&](int i, int j) { return J(q, i, j, e); });
         double dx  = impl::Measure(J_q) * dxi;

         // evaluate the value/derivatives needed for the q-function at this quadrature point
         auto arg = impl::Preprocess<trial_element>(u_elem, xi, J_q);

         // evaluate the user-specified constitutive model
         //
         // note: make_dual(arg) promotes those arguments to dual number types
         // so that qf_output will contain values and derivatives
         auto qf_output = qf(x_q, make_dual(arg));

> 

Reviewer 3: I think it would be useful to have a section here on how to interpret the results of `get_gradient(dq_output)`. It's possible a user may want to get access to the gradient of a q function without performing an integration?

I think something to remind users about the `std::tuple<2,2>` nature of the output and what it represents would be sufficient.

Author: I'll add some additional notes on the `tensor_dual.rst` about how arithmetic and differentiation of tuples works

> .. _header-n2:

Reviewer 4: please match the page's title so we don't have to remember to flip the label.

=========
Weak Form
=========

``WeakForm`` is a class that is used specify and evaluate
finite-element-type calculations. For example, the weighted residual for
a solid mechanics simulation may look something like:

.. math::

   r(u) := 
   \underbrace{\int_\Omega \nabla\psi : \sigma(\nabla u) \; \text{d}v}_{\text{stress response}}
   \;+\;
   \underbrace{\int_\Omega \psi \cdot b(\mathbf{x}) \; \text{d}v}_{\text{body forces}} 
   \;+\;
   \underbrace{\int_{\partial\Omega} \psi \cdot \mathbf{t}(\mathbf{x}) \; \text{d}a}_{\text{surface loads}},

where :math:`\psi` are the test basis functions. To describe this
residual using ``WeakForm``, we first create the object itself, providing a
template parameter that expresses the test and trial spaces (i.e. the
"inputs" and "outputs" of the residual function, :math:`r`). In this

> case, solid mechanics uses H1 test and trial spaces, so we write:

Reviewer 4: This is the first reference to H1.  Should it be defined here?

Author: ```suggestion
case, solid mechanics uses nodal displacements and residuals (i.e. H1 test and trial spaces), so we write:
```

vector of weighted residuals, using H1 test functions.

Now that the ``WeakForm`` object is created, we can use the
following functions to define integral terms (depending on their
dimensionality). Here, we use :math:`s` to denote the "source" term
(integrated against test functions), and :math:`f` to denote the 
"flux" term (integrated against test function gradients).

1. Integrals of the form:
   :math:`\displaystyle \iint_\Omega \psi \cdot s + \nabla \psi : f \; da`

   .. code-block:: cpp

      WeakForm::AddAreaIntegral([](auto ... args){
      	auto s = ...;
      	auto f = ...;
      	return std::tuple{s, f};
      }, domain_of_integration);

2. Integrals of the form:
   :math:`\displaystyle \iiint_\Omega \psi \cdot s + \nabla \psi : f \; dv`

   .. code-block:: cpp

      WeakForm::AddVolumeIntegral([](auto ... args){
      	auto s = ...;
      	auto f = ...;
      	return std::tuple{s, f};
      }, domain_of_integration);

3. Integrals of the form:
   :math:`\displaystyle \iint_{\partial \Omega} \psi \cdot s \; da`

   .. code-block:: cpp

      WeakForm::AddSurfaceIntegral([](auto ... args){
      	auto s = ...;
      	return s;
      }, domain_of_integration);	

> So, for our problem (since we assumed 3D earlier) we can make an

Reviewer 4: Should an example of `Weakform::AddDomainIntegral(...)` be here as well? Also can you add something a bit more helpful that just repeating "Integrals of the form"?
